---
layout: post
title: "At Long Last..."
date: 2011-12-21 18:00
comments: true
categories:
---

The semester from Hell is over.  _phew_

OK, all things considered, this semester could have been worse.  I had one
really cool class, Computer Systems.  (Though as is usually the case, because
it was cool it was also quite difficult)  I also had a very stupid writing
class, and a probability and statistics class which wasn't too bad.  The thing
that made this the semester from, well, _down there_, was my models of
computation class.

This class should not have been that difficult.  Computation theory is not
something I struggle with very much.  In fact, most of the semester, I taught
myself the subject matter, and didn't really get much out of lectures.  The
issue was that the professor, though knowledgeable and passionate about the
subject, was not very adept at communicating the subject matter to the
students.  I think we've all had these types of professors.  To make matters
worse, he had decided to overhaul the class this semester to make it more
programming-centric.  When I heard this, I was ecstatic.  Not only would it be
more programming work than just on-paper work, but we were also going to be
doing that programming in Python, which is my language of choice!

There was a problem, however.  He had not written the year's curriculum in
advance over the summer.  No, he taught the class from his lecture notes (which
he wrote throughout the semester, and obviously didn't have edited).  He also
wrote the assignments as he went.  This resulted in a _lot_ of errors and
confusion.  Assignments would be updated with fixes the day before they were
due, which just made me want to procrastinate more than normal, because
otherwise I'd have to redo the assignment anyways.  Oh, and these changes would
not always get mailed out to the class mailing list or even changed in the
assignment PDF; rather, he would often just post the changes to a FAQ document,
which we were supposed to check on a regular basis.  So often we had to rely on
word of mouth between students to catch changes before the due date came a
went.  It sucked!  His notes were rambling and filled with jokes about the
subject matter that really only he would get, which just made them confusing.
Why couldn't he have just taught out of a [book][1]????\*

Then came the straw that broke the camel's back.  Actually, it was more like a
bail of hay.  Although his syllabus had said from the beginning of the semester
that we would only have a final project and an exam in which we would analyze
our final projects, he sent out an e-mail two weeks before the end of the
semester:  We were having a comprehensive final exam.  I have to admit I had a
small breakdown that night.  I was _pissed_.

In any case, it's all over.  And I may even pull an A or A- in that class!
Sorry for the venting post, but it had to be done.

Also, I'm going to blame the long period of silence this blog has been enduring
on this last semester.  Theoretically I'll start posting periodically again.
We'll see.  =)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\* The linked book is the one I think he should have used -- I bought it a couple
of weeks ago, and it does _such_ a better job than his notes did.  I wish I had
bought it the first day of class -- would have been a lifesaver!  I highly
recommend it to anyone studying theory/models of computation.

[1]: http://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Theory-Computation-Michael-Sipser/dp/0534950973/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1324509128&sr=8-1
