---
layout: post
title: "New Habits"
date: 2012-01-03 18:00
comments: true
categories:
---

I recently saved an [article][1] to [Instapaper][2].

I finally got around to reading it today.  And it's really good!  It's all
about creating habits rather than specific goals for change, and letting the
change happen as a result of the habits.  It talks about only focusing on a
single habit at a time, and throwing yourself into it completely.  It talks
about enjoying it:  enjoy the healthy foods that can be so good, like berries.
Do exercise that you enjoy.  Try to make one new habit per month:  even if you
only stick to half of those habits, you've made 6 new positive habits per year!
Your life will change as a result.

So I've decided to make some habits.  Here are some of them, in the order I
plan to implement them.  I don't know if I'll take a whole month for each, but
I do know that, as my Dad says, if I wait to do them perfectly (plan a perfect
exercise routine, perfect diet, etc), I'll never do them.

1. Stick to a sleep schedule with 8 hours per night.

This one is tough for me, and I'm not really sure why.  I love to lay in my bed
and watch TV shows, and then always regret it come morning when I have to get
up early.  I equate it to how it must feel to drink and then be hung over the
next morning:  it was fun, but was it worth it?  My plan is to go to bed at
2130 every night, and wake up at 0530 every morning.  If I'm sticking to the
2130 bedtime properly, then letting myself sleep in on the weekends is OK.
Also, I can have some wiggle room on the weekends if I'm doing something
social.

2. Stop eating out

We didn't eat out a lot when I was young.  So when I had my own money, it was
*such* a draw to eat out -- the food it so delicious and it was such a novelty!
But it's a huge factor in how out of shape I am.  It also is really hard on my
finances.  Two birds with one stone.

3. Exercise three days per week

One of the most cliche resolutions out there.  But I've got to do it.  I've
actually been doing this one for a couple of weeks now -- only 20 minutes per
exercise session, but it's a start.

Wish me luck!

[1]: http://zenhabits.net/fitguide/
[2]: http://www.instapaper.com/
